---
title: Mathematical Modeling of Single-cell RNA Sequencing Data Helps Understand Discontinuous
  Transcription
url: https://www.niams.nih.gov/labs/niams-advances/mathematical-modeling-single-cell-rna-sequencing-data-helps-understand
date: '2024-11-27'
author: hfabryova
feed_url: https://niams.nih.gov/rss.xml
---
Mathematical Modeling of Single-cell RNA Sequencing Data Helps Understand Discontinuous Transcription hfabryova Wed, 11/27/2024 - 10:16 November 27, 2024 BASIC NIAMS IRP John O’Shea, M.D. Molecular Immunology and Inflammation Branch Advance description Genes are expressed through tightly controlled processes. The first step of gene expression is transcription, a cellular process by which a gene's DNA sequence is copied into RNA. Transcriptional bursting is a fundamental property of genes that allows large amounts of RNA to be produced in a short period of time. This process has been observed in diverse organisms, from bacteria to mammals. In this study, the researchers applied mathematical modeling to single-cell RNA sequencing data information on the transcriptional activity of individual cells&mdash;to infer transcriptional bursting dynamics under multiple conditions. The researchers found that Mediator complex subunit 26 (MED26) had the most profound impact on the entire gene regulatory network, acting downstream of chromatin spatial architecture without affecting TATA box-binding protein recruitment, a key step that helps recruits transcription machinery to the gene. These findings suggest that later steps in the initiation of transcriptional bursts are primary nodes for integrating gene networks in single cells. What is exciting about this article? Researchers aimed to identify potential molecular mechanisms that regulate transcriptional bursting. They discovered that MED26 plays a distinct role in transcriptional bursting and gene network coordination compared to BRD4 and cohesin. This study combined mathematical modeling and single-cell RNA sequencing to explore how transcriptional regulators influence gene bursting and co-expression. The important roles of chromatin architecture and proteins like BRD4, MED26, and MYC in regulating gene activity were highlighted, providing new insights into cellular gene control. Grant support ZIA AR041148 Cell Biology Computational Biology Genetics and Genomics 3D chromatin architecture, BRD4, and Mediator have distinct roles in regulating genome-wide transcriptional bursting and gene network. Trzaskoma P, Jung S, Pękowska A, Bohrer CH, Wang X, Naz F, Dell'Orso S, Dubois WD, Olivera A, Vartak SV, Zhao Y, Nayak S, Overmiller A, Morasso MI, Sartorelli V, Larson DR, Chow CC, Casellas R, O'Shea JJ Sci Adv. 2024 Aug 9; 10 (32). doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adl4893 PMID: 39121214 Research reported in this publication was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the NIHʼs National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.
