---
title: A Metabolic Pathway Modifies Immune Responses and Associates with Cardiovascular
  Disease in Lupus
url: https://www.niams.nih.gov/labs/niams-advances/metabolic-pathway-modifies-immune-responses-and-associates-cardiovascular
date: '2024-11-27'
author: hfabryova
feed_url: https://niams.nih.gov/rss.xml
---
A Metabolic Pathway Modifies Immune Responses and Associates with Cardiovascular Disease in Lupus hfabryova Wed, 11/27/2024 - 10:52 November 27, 2024 TRANSLATIONAL NIAMS IRP Mariana J. Kaplan, M.D. Systemic Autoimmunity Branch Advance description This study examines how a specific metabolic pathway, called the Aconitate Decarboxylase 1/Itaconate pathway, affects the immune system in people with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The researchers found that this pathway is involved in the immune system dysfunction in animal models of lupus and is also linked to markers that indicate heart disease risk and lupus disease activity levels in people with SLE. What is exciting about this article? By better understanding this pathway, researchers could find new ways to treat lupus and reduce the risk of heart disease in people with lupus by modulating metabolic pathways in their immune cells. Grant support ZIA AR041199 (Kaplan, Mariana) Systemic Autoimmunity Autoimmunity Clinical Research Immunology The Aconitate Decarboxylase 1/Itaconate Pathway Modulates Immune Dysregulation and Associates with Cardiovascular Disease Markers and Disease Activity in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Patiño-Martinez E, Nakabo S, Jiang K, Carmona-Rivera C, Tsai WL, Claybaugh D, Yu ZX, Romero A, Bohrnsen E, Schwarz B, Solís-Barbosa MA, Blanco LP, Naqi M, Temesgen-Oyelakin Y, Davis M, Manna Z, Gupta S, Mehta N, Naz F, dell'Orso S, Hasni S, Kaplan MJ J Immunol. 2024 Aug 15; 213 (4). doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.2400241 PMID: 38949522 Research reported in this publication was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the NIHʼs National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.
