---
title: Mutations in a Gene Related to Hearing Loss Could Lead to Defective Merkel
  Cell Touch Sensors in the Skin
url: https://www.niams.nih.gov/labs/niams-advances/mutations-gene-related-hearing-loss-could-lead-defective-merkel-cell-touch
date: '2024-11-27'
author: hfabryova
feed_url: https://niams.nih.gov/rss.xml
---
Mutations in a Gene Related to Hearing Loss Could Lead to Defective Merkel Cell Touch Sensors in the Skin hfabryova Wed, 11/27/2024 - 11:08 November 27, 2024 BASIC NIAMS IRP Isaac Brownell, M.D., Ph.D. Cutaneous Development and Carcinogenesis Section Advance description Homeobox domain transcription factors are proteins that have a region with a specific structure that binds a specific DNA sequence within a gene. These transcriptions factors play a known role in development. More specifically, the POU family of homeobox domain transcription factors play important roles in the development of multiple tissue types including sensory tissues. Mutations in the POU4F3 gene are known to cause a dominant form of hereditary hearing loss in humans. Researchers used whole transcriptome profiling to discover that POU4F3 and POU4F1 are selectively expressed in Merkel cells (MCs), which are specialized touch sensors, from both neonatal and adult mouse skin. Using genetically engineered knockout mice, they determined that POU4F3 is critical for MC development, while POU4F1 is expressed in MCs but not necessary for their development. What is exciting about this article? This study shows that mice with mutant POU4F3 have defective Merkel cell touch sensors in their skin. This result suggests that families with POU4F3-related hearing loss may also have unrecognized problems with touch sensation. Grant support ZIA AR041221 (Brownell, Isaac) Development and Regulation of Stem Cell Lineages in Skin Skin Biology POU4F3 Is Necessary for Normal Merkel Cell Formation, whereas POU4F1 Is Dispensable. Jarvis JE, Miao L, Hallaert P, Martin MR, Collado L, Hill NT, Brownell I J Invest Dermatol. 2025 Jan; 145 (1). doi: 10.1016/j.jid.2024.06.1284 PMID: 39009281 Research reported in this publication was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the NIHʼs National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.
